	Lesson 0, Installation of Emacs

Hello and  welcome to  the first  part of  tutorials regarding  use of
Emacs for your tabletop gaming sessions.

Lets start from the beginning, the installation of all the software we
will need for most of the GM work that Emacs can be adapted.

Some notes about platform issues:

If you are a Windows user,  please install Cygwin. Yes, it is possible
to make  it all  work without  it, but some  of the  configuration can
become  less reliable.  This tutorial  will take  you by  installation
procedure step by step.

If you  are a linux  user I  am going to  assume that you  either have
pre-installed Emacs (version  24 or higher) or can install  it on your
preferred distribution. Same goes for  Ispell or other spelling engine
of your choice with dictionaries of your choice.

Mac/Apple products... I honestly have no  idea. I have never worked on
your platform. If  anyone is actually experienced or  could confirm to
what extent Linux and

Mac/Apple part correctly overlap I would be indebted.

Part for Windows:  Go to Cygwin[1] homepage and  select installer that
corresponds to  your system (32 or  64 bit Windows, if  you are unsure
select 32 bit). Proceed with the download.

Run program, confirm that you actually want to run the installer.

Click 'Next'. In  the next window stay with  preselected 'Install from
internet'.

Stay  with recommended  option for  all  users unless  you use  shared
machine or don't have administrator access.

Select main folder for installation.

Stay with direct connection unless connection exceptions mentioned are
valid in your case.

Select http://cygwin.mirror.constant.com[2] as a source of software.

Now it  may tak  a moment to  load, afterwards you  will see  a larger
window  with  option  to  select  components  of  Linux  you  want  to
install.  Search for  the following:  emacs, emacs-w32,  aspell (along
with dictionaries you want) and change their status by clicking on the
'recycle'  symbol (the  two  wiggly arrows).  You  should get  version
numbers. Make sure Emacs is 24.4-2 or newer.

Proceed with  the installation.  It may  take a  while but  unless you
operate under very slow connection and/or  old computer it will all be
over in less then 10 minutes.

Agree  to make  short-cuts  that  you want,  I  stayed  with both  for
convenience.

Congratulations! You  are now  a Windows user  with capability  to run
some of the Linux programs!

Open  Cygwin  Terminal from  one  of  the short-cuts  or  installation
directory and you  will see a command line interface.  It differs from
normal Windows  command line or  Powershell, but don't worry  about it
even if you are absolute newbie. You  can learn a lot about both Linux
and Windows  command line from  Zed Shaw Command Line  Crash Course[3]
. Just  remember to make  Linux section  in Cygwin terminal,  but even
that bit  is not really a  strict requirement. I will  explain command
line as I will progress.

Feel free to ask questions :D.

Now, I can assume you have Emacs  ready for action. For both Linux and
Windows users I want to make the following command in their terminals:

     emacs&

With non-obligatory  '&' at the end.  It is just a  command line trick
that allows  you to  run something  in the terminal  and not  block it
while said program runs. You can test it by closing Emacs and doing it
without the '&' at the end.

You will  be welcomed  by initial Emacs  screen, before  going through
with  next  part of  material  I  would like  you  to  go through  the
tutorial.  'C'  is a  short-cut  for  left  Control  key and  'M'  for
(usually) left Alt  key. You don't need  all, but to get  the gist try
going as far  as you can without feeling strained.  Learning curve can
differ from person to person, so don't worry if you get lost. If there
will be such a  need I will provide a cheat-sheet  of 'top N' commands
and key combinations.

It may  seem like a  chore, but  to use it  in any proficient  way you
would have to do it anyway. Take  your time, I hope I will finish next
(more RPG oriented) part by tomorrow.
